memhub tokenizer calibration corpus.

This fixed sample is sent to Anthropic's count_tokens endpoint exactly once,
when a user runs `memhub metrics calibrate`, to measure the ratio between the
local cl100k_base estimate and Anthropic's real tokenizer. Nothing from the
user's own project ever leaves the machine: the calibration only measures a
property of the tokenizer itself, which is a property of the text-encoding
scheme rather than of any particular repository. The corpus therefore blends
the kinds of text memhub actually counts at runtime — durable facts, recorded
decisions, task notes, and rendered recall bundles — so the measured multiplier
reflects realistic input rather than artificially clean prose.

Plain English prose forms the largest share, because most durable memory is
written as ordinary sentences. A fact reads like a short declarative claim:
"The release build embeds the BGE-small embedding model and the ms-marco
cross-encoder re-ranker directly into the binary, so a built artifact never
reaches out to Hugging Face at runtime." A decision reads like a paragraph of
reasoning followed by a verdict: "We considered both whole-database snapshots
and row-level merge for cross-machine synchronization. Row merge promised
finer-grained conflict handling, but it required a vector clock per table and
a reconciliation pass that could silently reorder history. The snapshot model
is byte-stable enough when paired with a logical content digest, and it keeps
the lossy case — both machines edited since the last sync — operator-gated
rather than automatic. We chose the snapshot model and accepted last-writer-
wins as the cost of staying single-user across one person's own machines."

Technical writing of this kind mixes natural language with a steady sprinkle of
identifiers, file paths, command invocations, and small code fragments, and
those tokenize quite differently from clean prose. A tokenizer trained on web
text splits a snake_case identifier like cache_creation_tokens or
session_turn_metrics into several subword pieces; a camelCase name like
PeriodTotals or RecallResponse splits along the case boundaries; a fully
qualified path such as src/metrics/recall_proxy.rs or
.memhub/rendered/PROJECT_LEDGER.md fragments at every slash, dot, and
underscore. Including these in the corpus keeps the calibration honest, because
a factor measured purely on flowing English would understate how the real
content of a memory store actually encodes.

Here is a representative slice of the kind of structured text a recall bundle
returns to an agent mid-session. The hybrid retriever combines a BM25 score
from the FTS5 virtual table with a cosine similarity over BGE-small embeddings,
blends the two, and then re-ranks the top candidates with a bundled cross-
encoder before truncating to max_results. A candidate whose cross-encoder logit
falls below min_rerank_score is dropped, primarily so that a gibberish query
returns an empty bundle instead of a confident-looking but irrelevant hit.
Decisions can carry an optional natural-language summary that is prepended to
both the bi-encoder embed text and the cross-encoder rerank input, which lets a
decision with a jargon-heavy title still surface for a plain-English question.

A short SQL fragment of the sort that appears in migrations and in decision
notes: SELECT AVG(cache_creation_tokens * 1.0 / (cache_read_tokens +
cache_creation_tokens)) * 100.0 FROM session_metrics WHERE
datetime(started_at) >= datetime('now', ?1) AND (cache_read_tokens +
cache_creation_tokens) > 0. And a small Rust fragment of the sort that appears
when a decision quotes the code it is about: pub fn tokens_of(s: &str) -> usize
{ let raw = raw_token_count(s); let factor = calibration_factor(); if factor ==
1.0 { return raw; } (raw as f64 * factor).round() as usize }.

Numbers and units appear often in engineering memory and tokenize in their own
way: a 2.8 MB snapshot costs roughly 987,000 tokens to ship as base64 over a
message channel, which is why the transport is an operating-system synced folder
instead. The re-ranker adds about 275 milliseconds per recall at a candidate
pool of 20, in exchange for roughly 17 percentage points of Recall@1 on the
project's own golden set. Retention defaults to 90 days. The cl100k estimate is
acknowledged to be within about 10 percent of the real count, and the whole
point of this calibration is to remove that systematic bias once and for all.

Finally, a stretch of ordinary narrative prose with no special tokens at all,
to balance the identifier-heavy sections above and keep the corpus
representative of the documentation and session notes that make up so much of a
mature project memory. When a new engineer joins a project, the first thing they
need is not a list of files but a story: what the system is for, what was tried
and abandoned, which constraints are load-bearing and which are incidental, and
where the sharp edges are. A good memory store captures that story incrementally,
one durable note at a time, so that the narrative is never reconstructed from
scratch and never depends on a single person's recollection. The goal is modest
and concrete. Make it cheap to remember the right thing, make it hard to promote
a careless claim into durable truth, and keep the whole apparatus boring,
offline, and local-first, so that it keeps working on a laptop on an airplane
with no network and no surprises.
